---
title: "Vibe Check #5"
author: Thomas Wilson
date: 2022-07-06T20:38:00Z
slug: 2022-07-06-vibe-check-5
draft: false

---

# Vibe Check #5

We're over half way through the year.  Which is good.  The second half of the year is definitely my favourite half, with late summer, autumn, and Christmas ahead.

I'm gearing up for my personal summer out-of-office.  During which I will be mostly in-office, but using all my my free time to enjoy the balmy but brief British summer breeze.  Just like life, summer is too short to spend unintentionally, and with the days already getting shorter I'm on a timer here. 

Anyway, June 2022 has been a terrifying and exhausting month.  It started with taking my partner to A&E, which moved quickly to  some emergency surgery.  This, followed by a (frustratingly) slow recovery, has taken near all of my mental energy and attention.  Luckily they're really into their recovery now, and I'm walking out the last of the wobbles on myself.

It's amazing how things like this can eat into you and narrow your vision.  It's been good to get through some of these days.

Other days have been less dramatic.  And I've managed to find a pretty cool moments, like: 

* Having an influx of deluxe chocolate into the household, by way of get-well-soon gifts.  Finishing an evening meal with a nibble.
* Evening cycle rides where the sun is golden, and the air is warm but cooling and smells like earth which has been warmed all day.
* Taking an off-grid holiday with university friends, during which I did very little exercise, ate very much, drank sensibly, and played a _lot_ of board games.
* Starting to sew my second type of garment: some shorts.  I'm almost done making the toile and so far I've had to completely undo two things.  Sewing is _really_ hard, and the instructions are only clear once you've done it.  Hopefully in July I'll find time to start making the real thing.
* Re-watching Stranger Things from the beginning (while sewing).  It's a damn fine show.
* Eating meals outside, with bare feet touching grass.
