---
title: 'Vibe Check #13'
date: 2023-06-16T13:06:37.818Z
slug: 2023-06-16-vibe-check-13
author: Thomas Wilson

---
Summer's coming in, which is pretty great.  I love the summer (old news and a lukewarm take).

I've found myself fulfilled over the last eight-ten weeks.  I have seen one of my closest friends get married, I've finished multiple sewing projects (I'm wearing a Snout Street shirt right now, a little linen number), and I've re-started French lessons (online).

There have been some harder moments.  The economy around Venture Capital is slow at the moment, and I work at a start-up.  There have been some very difficult moments and conversations recently, which haven't been fun.  I don't know enough to know if it's a fair comparison, but I didn't have to work through 2008's crisis, so this is the first one which I am a part of.  From what I can see - it's not just me or where I am working. 

I took a minute away from reading and movies - throughout the winter-spring I was watching and reading a lot, and I'm honestly not sure what has filled that time.  I expect it's planning a wedding and a holiday, and spending time outside.  Ah, spending time outside. 

In the past few weeks I've found myself coming back to the practice/habit of reading.  I've started Janina Ramirez's [Femina](https://www.penguin.co.uk/books/442293/femina-by-ramirez-janina/9780753558263), and blasted through RF Kuang's [Babel](https://harpercollins.co.uk/products/babel-or-the-necessity-of-violence-an-arcane-history-of-the-oxford-translators-revolution-rf-kuang) and Angeline Jackson's [Funny Gyal](https://www.queerlit.co.uk/products/funny-gyal) (the latter two of which are book club books - thanks book club!)

I've also been looking at natural dyeing (*dye* and *die* being fun homophones).  I bought myself a little starter kit and a few metres of linen (linen being *much* more expensive than you'd think) - and I'm excited to dye some garments, and probably some bunting too.  There's a lot of fun crafts out there. 

So I guess to check on the vibes: the vibes are mixed.  It's been stressful and scary, but the sun's out and life is still good.  I'm not sure I can call life bad if I get to eat fresh cucumber satay noodles in the garden on just, like, a Tuesday evening. 