---
title: 'Vibe Check #12'
date: 2023-04-14T20:33:52.766Z
slug: 2023-04-14-vibe-check-12
author: Thomas Wilson
tags: 
    - vibe-check

---
I find myself writing this a full two (2!) weeks into April.  It's been seventeen days since I last wrote _anything_, which feels unusual.  My brain feels it: I've taken more and more detailed notes (at work, in life) in the last five-or-so days.  I wrote the notes for this piece on paper at an off-grid cottage in Wales (10/10, strong recommend).

The singular feeling from March 2023 I would press into the hands of me-in-February is that of sunlight at seven o'clock in the evening.  And of how quickly that change happens.  The evenings don't end at five PM.  The darkness doesn't take up all the space in the evening.  It is marvellous.  

I've not watched a single movie this month, but I have enjoyed several series: Couples Therapy (if I was a ghost, I think I would haunt therapy sessions), Wild Isles (Sir David Attenborough and Great Britain at their finest), and Ted Lasso (finishing Season 2, now that 3 is released).

I've found myself in a non-fiction place for books.  For which I particularly recommend:

* [A Fortunate Woman](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60713379-a-fortunate-woman), Polly Morland.  An account of a country doctor, put so well how years-long acceptance and relationships make us better people and communities.
* [Super-Infinite](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59851731-super-infinite), Katherine Rundell.  Recounts the life of John Donne, a seventeenth century poet (new to me).  In telling him and his story, Rundell shows us a complicated and unique man.
* [Acelerate](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35747076-accelerate), Nicole Forsgren, Jez Humble, Gene Kim.  A book about the benefits of Continuous Integration and Delivery as heartbeat practices for modern software teams.  Please only read this if you find yourself in a position to influence the prioritisation and ways-of-working of software teams.
* [The Mom Test](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52283963-the-mom-test), Rob Fitzpatrick.  A book about asking good questions and framing business and product conversations.  It's framed for business people but really, I think there's life advice in there.  This was a re-read (from 2020, I think) - and I'm glad I did.

When reading non-fiction, I find myself more interested in the world.  By considering something, and how to tell its story to a stranger - it reminds my brain that the world is a place full of things worth paying attention to.  That my culture, my craft are things I participate in, not things that just _are_.

This has easily been my most socially busy time since Christmas.  I've even some friends twice within one month.  I've been careful to take care of body and mind - it's easy to add obligations and activity without making the requisite deductions from the balance sheet.  I remain a working young professional (who's getting married).

Which is also to say why little (no) progress of note has been made on any of my sewing projects.  I have finished a trouser toile which came out a good inch too small around the waist (despite the last one coming out several inches too wide).  I've started a pair of trousers in indigo wool (now we're talking about April, slow down, Wilson).  I've already seen myself  resume more careful focus of sewing.

Look, that's it.  Sometimes it's about making things short or never getting around to them.