---
title: Vibe Check 2023
date: 2024-01-02T22:35:38.179Z
slug: 2024-01-02-vibe-check-2023
author: Thomas Wilson

---
The vibes were good, mostly.  Things got a bit dicey for a moment, especially in the first half of the year.  

I left a job that I was good at, largely enjoyed, and where I really respected the people.  I've been more engaged in the day-to-day of making and moulding software.

I doubled down on making clothes that I can wear personally and professionally.  I think I spent more time and attention taking good photos this year than I have probably since 2020.  I think photos and garments are the things I have made this year that I have the most non-professional pride in.

I bought at least several thousand gizmos and widgets for pattern construction or garment sewing.  Even worse, I use them regularly enough to mandate keeping them.  I have a special hole punch for button holes on cloth and another special hole punch for cutting little notches in paper. 

I did more swimming and less cycling in 2023 than 2022 (I think).  I have both written and read less, personally and professionally.

I've become quite good at wedding planning.  Maybe the best I will ever be at wedding planning.  I don't want to peak too soon.

I have had anxiety dreams about being il-prepared, or il-clothed, for the wedding.  I don't think I have ever had anxiety dreams before.  I am thirty-one years old, I have cycled solo across another country during storms, performed on stage without professional training, and I hold a doctorate.  Nothing has made me as nervous as my wedding is making me.

I left the country for the first time since 2019, and realised that 2023 Wilson travels and feels differently than he did previously.  I had colourful cocktails and chilled wine on boat and on a town square, under the summer sun... should I convince myself it was unbearable.

I connected with some parts of my life that I'm not happy to talk about publicly at the moment.  I wouldn't mention them, but they brought me some real joy.

I played a greater number and variety of board games.  I love board games, I love eating snacks and alternately crunching numbers and laughing with friends.

I played Baldur's Gate III, a game I think about sometimes when I'm not playing it.  The Steam Deck is a swell device for playing video games.

I am grateful for 2023, which I had dubbed my *Year of Tools*, by the way.  I am grateful for all the joyful moments, so many of which were around friends and family.  It was a good year, but unfortunately one that 2024 will probably top.